seng438-a2-10.md, before:

**SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#2 – Requirements-Based Test Generation**

| Group: 10    |
|-----------------|
| Mohamed Ebdalla                |   
| Aryan Karadia              |   
| Raisa Rafi               |   
| Zoraiz Khan             |   

# 1 Introduction

Text…

# 2 Detailed description of unit test strategy

We are testing all 5 methods of org.jfree.data.DataUtilities and we have chosen 5 other methods from org.jfree.data.Range to test as mentioned in the assignment guideline.
### org.jfree.data.DataUtilities
| Method Name           | Method Usage (return type)| What We Are Testing |
|------------------------------------------------| -------------------------- | ---------- |
| calculateColumnTotal(Values2D data, int column)| Returns the sum of the values in one column of the supplied data table. (static double) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| calculateRowTotal(Values2D data, int row)      | Returns the sum of the values in one row of the supplied data table. (static double) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| createNumberArray(double[] data)               | Constructs an array of Number objects from an array of double primitives. (static java.lang.Number[]) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| createNumberArray2D(double[][] data)           | Constructs an array of arrays of Number objects from a corresponding structure containing double primitives. (static java.lang.Number[][]) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| getCumulativePercentages(KeyedValues data)     |  Returns a KeyedValues instance that contains the cumulative percentage values for the data in another KeyedValues instance. (static KeyedValues) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |

# 3 Test cases developed

Text…

// write down the name of the test methods and classes. Organize the based on
the source code method // they test. identify which tests cover which partitions
you have explained in the test strategy section //above

# 4 How the team work/effort was divided and managed

Text…

# 5 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned

Text…

# 6 Comments/feedback on the lab itself

Text…

Commit message:

adding test plan for Range class

seng438-a2-10.md, after:

**SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#2 – Requirements-Based Test Generation**

| Group: 10    |
|-----------------|
| Mohamed Ebdalla                |   
| Aryan Karadia              |   
| Raisa Rafi               |   
| Zoraiz Khan             |   

# 1 Introduction

Text…

# 2 Detailed description of unit test strategy

We are testing all 5 methods of org.jfree.data.DataUtilities and we have chosen 5 other methods from org.jfree.data.Range to test as mentioned in the assignment guideline.
### org.jfree.data.DataUtilities
| Method Name           | Method Usage (return type)| What We Are Testing |
|------------------------------------------------| -------------------------- | ---------- |
| calculateColumnTotal(Values2D data, int column)| Returns the sum of the values in one column of the supplied data table. (static double) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| calculateRowTotal(Values2D data, int row)      | Returns the sum of the values in one row of the supplied data table. (static double) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| createNumberArray(double[] data)               | Constructs an array of Number objects from an array of double primitives. (static java.lang.Number[]) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| createNumberArray2D(double[][] data)           | Constructs an array of arrays of Number objects from a corresponding structure containing double primitives. (static java.lang.Number[][]) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| getCumulativePercentages(KeyedValues data)     |  Returns a KeyedValues instance that contains the cumulative percentage values for the data in another KeyedValues instance. (static KeyedValues) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |

### org.jfree.data.Range
| Method Name           | Method Usage (return type)| What We Are Testing |
|------------------------------------------------| -------------------------- | ---------- |
| contains(double value)| Returns true if the specified value is within the range and false otherwise. (boolean) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| constrain(double value) | Returns the value within the range that is closest to the specified value. (double) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| intersects(double lower, double upper) | Returns true if the range intersects (overlaps) with the specified range, and false otherwise. (boolean) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| expand(Range range, double lowermargin, double uppermargin) | Creates a new range by adding margins to an existing range. | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |
| combine(Range range1, Range range2) | Creates a new range by combining two existing ranges. (static Range) | Correct return type and value, throws exception with invalid input |

# 3 Test cases developed

Text…

// write down the name of the test methods and classes. Organize the based on
the source code method // they test. identify which tests cover which partitions
you have explained in the test strategy section //above

# 4 How the team work/effort was divided and managed

Text…

# 5 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned

Text…

# 6 Comments/feedback on the lab itself

Text…
